On Friday evening 27th January, the Shabbat evening of International Holocaust Memorial Day, a Palestinian terrorist murdered 7 Israelis as they were exiting their synagogue in Jerusalem. The next morning another Palestinian terrorist, a 13-year-old, shot an Israeli father and son near the entrance to the City of David National Park. Straight after these attacks, the abhorrent scenes in the Palestinian territories of celebrations of the murders were, to be blunt, blood-curdling. That this happens at all is a horrific tragedy. That is happened on International Holocaust Memorial Day is a reminder. The South African Government’s Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) chose to remain silent about all of this horror, despite making many a statement in the past about Israeli operations into Gaza which are done solely for the removal of terror threats. DIRCO, in fact the South African Government as a whole, seems to have missed International Holocaust Memorial Day altogether. One could naturally argue that they have their hands full at the moment what with the collapsing economy due to their looting and mismanagement of the country’s power supply. However, some of South Africa’s politicians do seem to have the space to make statements about the Middle East. Thapelo Amad, an imam and provincial chairperson of the South African political party Al Jama-ah, was sworn in as Johannesburg Mayor yesterday, 30 January. He has the full support of the ANC. It is a tragedy that our ministers and politicians do not care at all about the Palestinian people. It apparently does not seem problematic that a 13-year old tried to murder people, that a terrorist murdered 7 people including a 14-year old boy, that in the Palestinian territories crowds celebrated murder with fireworks, parties, music and the handing out of sweets. It is clear that the murder of 7 Israelis does not quite matter to this government, nor does the small Jewish population of South Africa. This horrific terror attack did, however, matter to the Global Imams Council, which issued a statement condemning in the strongest terms the Palestinian terror attack which claimed the lives of seven Jewish people. The Global Imams Council Declaration on their website reads  as follows: Since DIRCO has as its tagline: “We are committed to promoting South Africa’s national interests and values, a better South Africa, a better Africa, a better world for all”, it would be incumbent on our political leaders to emulate the Global Imams Council. May the souls of those murdered in the weekend’s tragedy rest in peace and may their families find comfort.